everybody welcome back to northern lion
place abiding by Stanford Plus where
we've almost finished all of the rebirth
challenges we got ahead travel we got
suicide King and 11 and 19 I am going to
break up the minutia a little bit by
doing a run that is not a challenge to
re-experience things about The Binding
of Isaac Cain to the Cathedral totally
works um not that I was getting bored
with like the challenges necessarily but
to c6 my qg6
d6 don't mind if I do I just like at
some point I really do have it's not
like I spend my nights thinking about
this but I really do have a theory of
Zayn eNOS and it's not even just Zane
eNOS to use like you know he said the
word but it's it's a theory of
entertainment and that the theory which
has been documented by people smarter
than myself is that restriction breeds
creativity it's the same reason like you
know whenever we've done like Kate and I
have done player unknowns battlegrounds
custom games I I don't like people are
like why don't you do one that's just
like a hundred people fists only look it
could be fun or like a hundred people
motorcycles only it could be fun but I
think when you set you weigh the table
so much in the direction of like things
being zany it stops being zany where you
actually get to Zayn is when there's a
little bit of freedom involved when you
have the choice to not be zany and you
choose to be zany that's where
entertainment can flourish right that's
why the concept not the best games
necessarily come in a game jams it's the
concept of a game jam is so cool it's
like of course you know industry is kind
of like one big game jam then the end
the theme is make the best game or
perhaps the game that you like the most
or perhaps the game that can sell the
most but the game jam is like hey just
do something but it has to be done in a
short period of time usually or it has
to be you know on this particular
theme or blah blah blah so I the freedom
aspect of Isaac that is sometimes not
inherent with those challenges as it's
only a byproduct the fact that we have
to do all the challenges over again in
the first place that it even becomes an
issue but anyway that's that's my like
overly self-important reasoning for why
I'm doing a normal Isaac run at the
present moment cuz you get situations
like this also I missed item rooms so we
got doorstop I don't know what doorstop
is but I can operate under an assumption
obviously we want transcendence named
after the best Johnny Depp movie
obviously um excuse me and I'll it's not
called Edie would which is actually the
best Johnny Depp movie but I diagram I
mean there's some good ones I'm not the
biggest Johnny Depp fan but I even I
would admit that he's done some great
work over the course of his career let's
try it oh it's a second son card that's
Oh what is this infamous anyway let's
move on and we'll get this key as well
I miss item rooms dude item rooms are
like the few will that you use to tailor
your run okay what I'm trying to distill
this down to is the idea that you know
sometimes the least zany thing you can
do is be like everything has to be zany
cuz now you're just making it like
normal it's like okay be careful
although is Virgo giving us this
protection here I'm actually going to
use our bomb I don't think we're in
trouble but like we might as well be a
little bit more careful we handled this
wrong it's like if you ate pizza for
every meal you get sick of it eventually
I think it'd be one of the foods at
least for me that I would be like
slowest to get sick of I think I'd get
sick of it eventually might take you
know a couple decades right be like you
know what I'd rather just not eat then
eat pizza for this meal at some point I
think it would happen that's why you got
to mix it up ice cream pizza ice cream
don't follow this advice this is bad
advice
I still live under the like the idea
that
the terrible specter that youtubing and
then you know being a twitch streamer is
still very young profession we don't
know the long-term ramifications I'm not
trying to suggest it's terrible for your
health but you know most youtubers
twitch streamers I know myself included
you know we're incentivized to spend a
lot of time sitting down don't really
prioritize good diet and exercise oh it
keeps all doors open
dude that's actually keeps the doors
that we came through open it's actually
pretty great if it works on like mob
trap rooms or you know we can enter a
room preview it and then leave if we
want I'm worried that you know like 20
26 is going to roll around and
everybody's going to be like hey turns
out I'm dead I hope not dude I hope not
I got to live to fight the robots in the
upcoming technical if that wasn't into
the item that was mmm because let's be
honest the robots are going to destroy
us if it ever comes to the point where
they could wage war almost by definition
they would end our existence but anyway
unless we were useful in some kind of
like you know maybe they could farm us
for meat or something we could be the
new okhta that didn't give me
invincibility I'm kind of like trying to
not go this low on HP but I'm gonna
because I know you know to thine own
self be true right I mean we have 5 HP
already you really need to push it this
far probably not we're in a really
really good spot provided we can still
get our deal with the devil and then I
guess it's like a secondary obvious
condition living would be pretty good
I'm gonna use a bomb here oh I think
I've actually it's like the fastest I've
ever done a 180 on a trinket this
trinket sucks if it accidentally leads
to me walking through doors this trinket
sucks especially using a bomb hurts the
most okay so we will get a deal with the
devil if we don't get hit on this room
I'll call it right now CNN projects
because then we're able to get a spirit
heart most of the time and in this case
obviously we were
and a year arun gives us a key and a
spirit hard and a pill why not give it a
shot is my my feeling year if the pills
good maybe we can buy it again it's
lemonparty probably not good enough to
blow up a donation machine that still
needs a little bit of love all we need
to really give us a great chance of
winning this run is some kind of dps
upgrade right here I'd settle for you
know tears as long as it was decent in
the end we don't have any choice but to
settle I did turns out I'll settle for
pageant boy because in the end I'm not
going to leave the item back there you
know you ever hear the expression
beggars can't be choosers we're getting
an item here we got to take it we've got
no choice in the matter more or less for
the time being at least one day dude it
did have d6 in the seed so you know what
they say d6 in the seed d6 indeed I
think uh sure said there Ludacris said
that in asurs magnum opus yeah okay it's
HP that is DPS why not I mean we have we
have enough HP to still have some
layaway this is not a why not this is a
why why I take lord of the pit and
transcendence if I was a more dishonest
man I could spin it oh well we got a
speed downgrade when we took large so I
think it was actually very smart for us
to take this to get a mild speed upgrade
but no it was just a mistake if I'm
leveling with you in the end it ended up
working out okay but it was a mistake
nonetheless little Bryn great pickup
obviously I counter ninetails also a
great pickup
we've got very few problems here you
know what we got a role doorstop and the
reason we got a role doorstop is because
I didn't want the HP upgrade seed like
it sometimes it's bad to have too much
HP it's like god idiot luckily HP is
like maybe the third most valuable
resource so no big deal dude we just
trade it away life force for nothing out
of inertia um
we got a roll with it to see what it can
do for us because oftentimes items and
Isaac can make a bad first impression
and then be excellent or alternatively
make a great first impression and then
be garbage
there was a long time where I thought
cursed I was a good item now you might
say that's just idiocy and to a large
degree you would probably be correct as
idiocy combined with a little bit of
stubbornness that I can't deny but you
know you look at and you go cool I can
fire multiple shots that's the triple
shot is a much better example you get
triple shot and you go oh this is
amazing I'm shooting three shots instead
of one now two of them are missing in my
rate of fire is garbage but still Herman
okay well we're probably not at the
point where we need to use a card like
the Herman to like skip boss Trap rooms
or anything like that but I'm so pleased
that I've been able to get back into the
loop of like playing Isaac on a non
challenge run a run that actually like
we don't know how far it's going to go
and well I mean we will at some point
but for now we don't know if this ends
at the chest or what because it's been
like a month since I did might as well
take it it's been like a month since I
did like a vanilla episode basically I
kind of appreciate this new Isaac
existence again you'd be surprised you
know you can keep your skills pretty
sharp for life if you know you deuce one
thing 45 minutes a day everyday for your
entire adult life you'll get pretty good
at it you know imagine if you ran 45
minutes a day every day in your adult
life how good would you be at running by
the end of it probably better than I am
at Isaac but still I digress a little
bit of work you know can can get a lot
of progress done probably what do I know
okay so good for Cano Meccano again we
finally got rooms which I didn't mention
but is very nice let's see what we get
in here I kind of want to take the
Hermit with me but perthro is better I
want to take the Hermit Oh
oh I want to take the Hermit to avoid
having to do boss rush but I don't know
if we've even done boss rushes cane so
maybe we actually want to keep her
throat oh he's done it that's not small
rock we have done boss rushes came so we
don't need to do boss rush but perthro
was more enjoyable than the Hermit as
far as cards go I mean we could use the
Hermit to save a key but it wouldn't
actually save a key because we have a
golden key right now so disregard that I
don't know what I'm talking about head
through here and I mean we could blow it
up but what a week really care at this
point I think we've already gotten both
secret rooms as well so let's just
bounce we've used a non zoo so we would
see better rooms if they existed we're
going to head downwards here
I like Cain dude if there were like
balance changes that I wanted to make to
Isaac in general this is kind of like a
hangover from the last maybe like three
months worth of episodes on the 1
million and one percent save file but oh
dude absolutely but giving every
character more or less the same base
damage as Cain I think would be like a
possible example cuz I'm we're living in
like a post difficulty Isaac world if
that like without being overly cocky
like you know what we roll that that's
not good at all Isaac is not a oh okay
well could be worse Isaac is not a
difficult game to beat that doesn't mean
that I've never had difficulty beating
it okay like phrasing maybe but yeah
what I mean potentially so I'm not your
initial reaction might be like well
people already win like at least 90% of
the runs they do oftentimes so like why
make it easier because it's more fun and
that's really I think about that
sometimes when I think about like the
eyes a game design like you know
like single-player games people beat
them all the time like the most
single-player games and I would argue
even stuff that is like oh it's you know
only for hardcore gamers even stuff like
Dark Souls included they're designed to
be beaten they're not designed to beat
you they're designed to provide maybe
like a challenge along the way but
mostly they're designed to be enjoyable
and certainly Isaac is enjoyable but you
know what's not enjoyable that one
stretch of time where we seemingly never
got damage upgrades until like the
eighth floor of the game that was a dang
old nightmare dude so I am going to make
myself look like an idiot and actually
remove all suspicion that I am an idiot
in the way that I did that we should
have taken whore Babylon first and then
the ability to fly then spirit of the
night because it would have given us
permanent or Babylon state with more HP
but anyway more spirit hearts rather
still I mean I don't think this was a
bad decision to take both items but it
was a very bad decision to take them in
that order either way we're still going
to be fine just getting the rust out a
little bit
it's what I'm going to chock it up to
anyway
now our damage is actually very very
good for this stage of the game all I
would like to see we're right on pace
for boss rush as well all I would like
to see is a tiers upgrade we've already
seen our deal with the devil here but
there's no way that we can like lower
our odds so if Gertie gives me in tears
upgrade I'm a very happy camper as far
as I'm concerned all of those shots were
hitting but it looked like I wasn't
firing at all tiers upgrade please dude
torn photo already seen our deal with
the devil and we are off to the next
floor this is what I missed I missed the
ability to make mistakes and have that
light colors at amber of your entire run
yet here we are doing everything we can
holding on to what I have and pretending
that I'm a Superman
and yet if you keep it with 8.4 damage
in the 7 rate of fire I'm like you know
it would be the ideal way to kill these
enemies run into them with ball of
bandages that's really like a good use
of your time the human brain is like bad
I don't like everyone I find it a little
disingenuous everyone goes oh the human
brain is so amazing like isn't it
amazing what the brain can do oh it's so
incredible if you're in neurologists you
get to say that you know you've trained
in the neurological arts brain magic as
I call it
but like the brain actually sort of
sucks
I think we've evolved even though we
don't understand our brain and even
though I'm an idiot and like let's be
honest like I have no idea what I'm
talking about it mostly I'm just
fabricating a bit of a bit to do in an
in the nine Episode here we are smarter
than our own brains at this point like I
can imagine if you don't eat if you're
so stupid you don't even know you have a
brain we're talking like you know back
in the Premio lithic revolution days
right then the existence of the brain is
like mind-boggling even our brain sucks
dude we know on a logical level we know
like oh you know consuming too many
trans and saturated fats has a higher
incidence of heart disease you know oh
don't smoke cigarettes oh don't drink
alcohol is bad for you oh you know like
I should really like work on improving
myself but instead I'm going to watch
six hours of Judge Judy like logically
we know some things are bad for us but
we do them anyway
like the best tasting food in the world
is like fried cornmeal with cheese dust
and salt on it and that's not because it
objectively tastes the best it's because
our brains are like hey that's a potent
cocktail to like you know have energy
that you can actually use give yourself
some you know reusable fat so that you
can stay stay alive in the winter right
we're due for like a brain refactoring
our brains were built when we had
different user requirements than we have
at the present moment and that's
excited for like I get that there's like
they're always making movies about this
is scary this is like we're doing head
trauma by accident they're always making
movies about technological like
futuristic dystopia so rarely is there a
futuristic utopia sometimes they'll do
like you know the movie starts and it's
like everything's perfect in the future
but it you know like 45 minutes in
you're like but it is and we're actually
all like slaves to the matrix or
something like that right anyway I think
you know I'm excited for the what I
would consider in as a lay person the
inevitability of refactoring our brains
like dude imagine here's just a simple
one right now
ideal food I'll dress ruffles potato
chips
sweet chili heat Doritos you know you
can change that to some extent by
changing your habits no doubt but what
if you could just you know pop into the
the brain clinic and they're like okay
so like now you're really you're just
going to like love apples like an apple
is I I think Apple stays good I eat you
know I don't need an apple a day to keep
the doctor away because I think that's
just marketing but I eat an apple a day
because it's a healthy and reasonably
nutritious snack and by the way if
you're going are nutritious NL what
about carbohydrates my dog it's a
freakin Apple get off the internet
you've gone too far if you if you're on
say I'm not bad-mouthing keto okay
remember you're the one saying apples
are bad for you I've you fired the first
shot if you're on some kind of diet that
is like I can eat infinite salami but I
can never touch an apple that's fine but
keep it to yourself because that is like
not sensible in my opinion but again I'm
not a doctor anyway but imagine you
could just head over to the brain clinic
and the brain doctor would be like I
don't know what they call them he would
be like hey by the way like a nice like
granny smith apple tastes better than
like Reese's peanut butter cups to you
right now forever I would do it in a
heartbeat imagine if you could if you
could wire you know your brain
on the low level to be like the number
one most important thing or the number
one thing that I get the most enjoyment
out of is like exercising we'd be better
off man maybe it would round off a
little bit of the edges of humanity I'm
not saying I want to live in a faultless
civilization I think as human beings our
faults are what gives us character and I
wear my faults on my sleeve you know how
many episodes ago was that I was like
maybe the visual part of my brain is
actually broken
I find myself endeared to myself as you
might expect in spite of the fact that I
have flaws but there's something to be
said for progress as well I think I
don't know it's I'm not saying there's
no troubling implications to you know
the progress of course there always is
but I don't know I guess I feel the need
to be cautiously optimistic about it
instead of pessimistic because like all
media's pessimistic about it but you
know what I'm an idiot
let's let's try something here I don't
care it enough about boss rush what we
should do instead is open this and see
if the door stays open it doesn't so
there is no need for us to have this I
think not that I can think of right off
the cut anyway but then again you know
whenever I think about stuff like that
I'm like maybe I would be if you guys
seen John Carpenter's magnum opus they
live is magnum opus is actually the
thing but like they live is also amazing
stars Keith David and rowdy roddy piper
anyway is it i'm not going to spoil the
ending of they live or anything like
that but well you know what that i might
as well not talk about it so i'm going
to spoil a little bit of they live they
live is about it's basically like a
1980s version of the matrix but a little
bit more comedy focused where like the
idea is that an alien civilization is
clandestinely taken over humanity and
they use like advertising to keep us
compliant i guess would be the best word
rowdy roddy piper finds a mystical pair
of sunglasses that allow them to break
they're kind of like hypnosis over
mankind and then
you know he endeavors to take down this
take down the race of the you know
basically the alien masters in this case
there's like a couple of dudes in the
movie who are like come on do the aliens
are like really helpful in their like
given us sweet technology and stuff like
that they're not so bad I always wonder
if like me being like yeah gene therapy
will be really cool if I'm like that guy
I'm like come on baby yeah we're like
we're all exactly the same now but like
it's not so bad look at the TV's great
Netflix is only $14 a month you know I'm
like ah maybe I shouldn't have bought
that there was no reason um maybe I do
end up being that guy that would be
unfortunate so I think like the doorstop
is not a great item not a great trinket
I should say I might be missing out on
some of the more creative uses of it I
will acquiesce either way I don't know
I'm just I guess I'm more I'm more
optimistic about the future than a lot
of people Automation is interesting
though I mean I mean first off
automation no breathing don't give an F
if I it cetera et cetera um but it's an
interesting thing to think of we've
already talked about that in a pretty
recent Isaac episode so I'm not going to
go down that road but still we live in
interesting times dude sometimes I think
about that not just when they whatever
people say it's like men you live in
interesting times it's always like haha
you know return of 2016 just when you
thought planet Earth couldn't get
weirder and you know there's something
to be said about that but we really do
live in like interesting times
you know the printing press was invented
in like the 13th century there's but
that's like one invention now I might be
ignorant but sorry I think it was
invented in the 14th century but anyway
if you if you lived in the 14th century
imagine being like feeling how lucky you
were that you live to see one
world-changing invention I think about
that sometimes you know if you were born
in the 14th century your parents might
be like
you're you have no idea how lucky you
are when I was a kid
the printing press didn't even exist you
know we had to copy everything by hand
in a monastery in like Stilgar Germany
you know
oh yeah mom you don't understand how
lucky I am to live in a world with the
dang printing press but like in if you
were born in between like the 1950s and
today you've lived through some
incredible like life-changing inventions
like a life-changing invention like
every five or ten years you know okay
obviously like radio is not that recent
but it is not that oh yeah that's what I
mean not that recent but like you know
television and color television the
launch of satellites you know landing a
man on the freaking moon International
Space Station telecommunications
networks including the Internet you know
vast improvements in modern medicine and
vaccinations and you know people always
talk about Iliad maybe where they were
back sliding on that I don't know like a
few people a small percentage of the
population compromising herd immunity is
pretty silly and needless but at the
same time like you know just still do
polio still basically doesn't exist so I
think they I think we're still doing a
pretty good job for the most and by we I
mean people smarter than me possible you
but definitely smarter than me you know
we we've lived in the point or we've
lived through an era I guess by
definition if you're watching this
you're probably a contemporary if not of
mine unless these have somehow persisted
in the future in which case what happens
in this episode to get it preserved in
the international record but anyway by
the way we're saving the present so
hopefully use it on this deal with the
devil we have lived to the point where
like we're getting back lat we're so
jaded with like the life-changing
inventions that we have that were jaded
with them and we're like our cellphones
actually good I mean sure I can access
the sum total of
human knowledge at my fingertips in an
instant but like is that distracting me
from looking at trees while I'm on the
bus makes me so freakin such a
masturbatory argument dude whenever
someone wants to insult someone it's
always yeah they were on their cell
phone just once I want them to like
actually it'll never happen but actually
confront the person on your cell phone
oh yeah what you're doing on your cell
phone playing Digimon Go or something
like that oh actually I was reading the
original version on translator of Anna
Karenina because it's 2017 you can get
freaking anything on the Internet what
do you think I'm just looking at pretty
pictures on this thing
I was reading the scientific journal
paper on you know how to build a solar
sail in zero gravity freakin ignorant
douchebag anyway I mean mostly I do use
if you're looking at funny photos I
can't deny that but like I don't have to
know grandpa uses the look at pictures
of what other people are eating for
lunch idiot pheromones have we done hush
with Cain no do we want to do hush with
Cain well like eventually yes with
strange attractor Dark Matter might not
be the right time for it but let's see
we got a 100 percent chance of a deal
with the devil here we'll see what we
get there and actually like we'll
definitely get an item because we have
the present which we'll use which will
actually be a stat decrease because
we'll lose the effects of dim bulb but
let's say I mean like it's almost like
you got to take the shot and become a
Guster here we didn't get it but we did
get stronger what okay well you know
what that makes me mad enough that I'm
getting the heck out of here
I'm actually a little cheese dim bulb is
better than losing dim bulb to get
ceremonial robes weird I wouldn't have
expected that on the bright side we can
now hold the space bar item which might
compensate for the mild stat decrease
anyway I'm just saying we're and you
know what what's funny about this I
always like to take the bit like one
step further I might be here like you
know oh every 10 years there's a
life-changing invention that's amazing
then you know imagine if you live in
like the year 2500 you put every five
years the life-changing invention try
every five minutes a life-changing
invention imagine living in the early
2000s and thinking the iPod was
revolutionary
these idiots didn't even have
teleportation technology yet why do we
talk like this in the future I do not
know or maybe like society won't exist
in that point while we live in like you
know caves waiting for you know fifteen
thousand years to pass so that it's safe
to go outside again and breathe the air
I don't know maybe maybe not that's what
I mean when I say our frames are broken
you know there's something like what is
it the great filter the great filter is
like any society sufficiently
technologically advanced enough to
possibly travel interstellar Li also by
definition has the potential to destroy
itself because you know the you I mean
you're basically flying through space on
explosions so if you just apply those
explosions to the ground instead you
could kill your whole species you would
think that like if our brains were sweet
we'd be like hey I know we got
differences but like maybe we could put
that aside and like remove the specter
of possibly destroying our entire
species but we're like nah and I'm done
the same way like I'm not a war monger
of course but like you know I have I
have petty disputes and stuff like that
my brain is broken as well I understand
someone cuts you off in traffic your
brain doesn't go like oh I think that
they're probably having a hard day so
why don't you cut him some slack now and
stay your brain is like I'm going to
well you're not actually going to do
this but in your head you're playing out
the fantasy of like I'm gonna run you
off the road
well you're I'm gonna teach you what
it's like you know oh you want to go
around being a jerk well what if I'm a
jerk to you oh you're dead you know like
we're Petty's spiteful creatures
sometimes and it might sound like I'm
trying to be like go don't cut yourself
on that edge but I don't mean it like
that I'm generally speaking a pretty big
fan of humanity I mean have you seen
they live it's a great film made by
humans many of society's greatest movies
have been made by people in my opinion I
don't want to be like political but
please oh good wait a minute we didn't
get rid of dimbo I am I am an idiot uh
give me a moment here I thought I got
rid of dim bulb
but I really just didn't think about it
I didn't get rid of dim bulb what I got
rid of was an item that kept dim bulb
permanently charged which is a subtle
but stark difference you guys been
watching Game of Thrones I thought it
was a really bold artistic choice when
they revealed Tony Stark in this act
he's Iron Man you see man round Wow now
now this is Game of Thrones it is that
Avengers with Robert Downey jr. the coin
bag has appeared in the basement you
unlock challenge 24 and it's a start
well okay I mean obviously pyromaniacs
good great if we have red hearts which
we don't but good pinking shears lovely
item sorta allows us to use a little bit
of dim bulb
the Necronomicon is if I use the death
card like 20 times or something right
maybe I killed 10 enemies with a death
card I don't know something along these
lines excuse me sir we should win uh but
if I think it's less guarantee than it
looks right now because we we do have
nine lives but we don't actually have a
great ability to kill enemies largely
like entirely as a result of the fact
that I've willfully inflicted head
trauma on myself here you know strange
attractor combined with a combined with
tiny planet it's not a great selection
of items just to level with you now with
love of coal is a little better and you
know we got a little brim backing us up
there's there's some positives to say it
ain't all bad but we've got a long way
to go as well even though dim bulb is is
worth something I think it makes sense
to only use the shears on rooms that we
feel we need to use the shears on
because we only get the stat bonus from
dim bulb wow that was really bad we only
get the stat bonus from dim bulb for one
room anyway we might as well get the
shears end a stat bonus on the same room
so I don't think it's worth using the
shears in a suboptimal room like a room
that's relatively easy just because we
want to get one room of stab bonus
because we only get the stat bonus on
the room that's already relatively easy
I think this makes a little bit of sense
a little bit of sense so we're probably
going to end up having to tap into nine
lives here
which is a little scary but honestly
with the shears I think we got a pretty
good chance to beat blue baby if we can
just get into the blue baby room and
then pop the sheers and stand in the
corner and we will get two opportunities
like let's say we use the shears on our
first chance we'll get two opportunities
because we have nuns habits so as long
as you've got a few lives left when we
go in there even if we die a few times
trying to fight after using this years
we'll still have enough charges to get
the shears ooh back that was actually
horrendously idiotic of me you still
champions huh he's fast he's fast he's
fast he's really really fast um some you
might want to pop this year's on this
one but I really feel like I should be
able to okay well disregard then see
like what I'm going to do then is pop
the shears and then hide yeah okay I
mean the spirit art is also great here
um but the static tears are amazing
actually we got pretty lucky and we're
gonna anta if we fail this this fight
right here will probably go back to the
shears just so we can still get a charge
but I do well I don't know we're getting
the stat bonus permanently that ended up
being pretty easy I guess oh this is a
fun run especially towards the end
thanks for watching them because I've
enjoyed the episode if you did click the
like button helps out a great deal and
of course subscribe if you wanna see
more in the future but for now thanks
for watching and as always I will see
you next time